APPENDIX B
CITY OF FILLMORE
COMMUNITY FACILITIES DISTRICT NO. 3
(RIVER OAKS)
RATE AND METHOD OF APPORTIONMENT OF SPECIAL TAX
A Special Tax as hereinafter defined shall be levied on all Assessor's Parcels in the City of
Fillmore Community Facilities District No. 3 (River Oaks) (“CFD No. 3”) and collected each
Fiscal Year commencing in Fiscal Year 2005-06, in an amount determined by the City Council of
the City of Fillmore or its designee, through the application of the Rate and Method of
Apportionment as described below. All of the real property in CFD No. 3, unless exempted by
law or by the provisions hereof, shall be taxed for the purposes, to the extent and in the manner
herein provided.
A.

DEFINITIONS
The terms hereinafter set forth have the following meanings:
“Acre or Acreage” means the land area of an Assessor's Parcel as shown on an
Assessor's Parcel Map, or if the land area is not shown on an Assessor's Parcel Map, the
land area shown on the applicable final map, parcel map, condominium plan, or other
recorded County parcel map.
“Act” means the Mello-Roos Community Facilities Act of 1982, as amended, being
Chapter 2.5, Division 2 of Title 5 of the Government Code of the State of California.
“Administrative Expenses” means the following actual or estimated costs directly
related to the administration of CFD No. 3: the costs of computing the Special Taxes and
preparing the annual Special Tax collection schedules (whether by the City or designee
thereof or both); the costs of collecting the Special Taxes (whether by the County or
otherwise); the costs of remitting the Special Taxes to the Trustee; the costs of the
Trustee (including its legal counsel) in the discharge of the duties required of it under
the Indenture; the costs to the City, CFD No. 3 or any designee thereof of complying
with arbitrage rebate requirements; the costs to the City, CFD No. 3 or any designee
thereof of complying with City, CFD No. 3 or obligated persons disclosure requirements
associated with applicable federal and state securities laws and of the Act; the costs
associated with preparing Special Tax disclosure statements and responding to public
inquiries regarding the Special Taxes; the costs of the City, CFD No. 3 or any designee
thereof related to an appeal of the Special Tax; the costs associated with the release of
funds from any escrow account; and the City's annual administration fees and third
party expenses. Administrative Expenses shall also include amounts estimated or
advanced by the City or CFD No. 3 for any other administrative purposes of CFD No. 3,
including attorney's fees and other costs related to commencing and pursuing to
completion any foreclosure of delinquent Special Taxes.
“Assessor's Parcel” means a lot or parcel shown in an Assessor's Parcel Map with an
assigned Assessor's parcel number.
“Assessor's Parcel Map” means an official map of the County Assessor of the County
designating parcels by Assessor's parcel number.
B-1

“Assigned Special Tax” means the Special Tax for each Land Use Class of Developed
Property, as determined in accordance with Section C below.
“Backup Special Tax” means the Special Tax applicable to each Assessor's Parcel of
Developed Property, as determined in accordance with Section C below.
“Bonds” means any bonds or other debt (as defined in Section 53317(d) of the Act),
whether in one or more series, issued by CFD No. 3 under the Act.
“CFD Administrator” means an official of the City, or designee thereof, responsible for
determining the Special Tax Requirement and providing for the levy and collection of
the Special Taxes.
“CFD No. 3” means the City of Fillmore Community Facilities District No. 3 (River
Oaks).
“City” means the City of Fillmore, California.
“Council” means the City Council of the City.
“County” means the County of Ventura, California.
“Developed Property” means for each Fiscal Year, all Taxable Property, exclusive of
Taxable Public Property and Taxable Property Owner Association Property, for which a
building permit for new construction was issued after January 1, 2003 and prior to
March 1 of the prior Fiscal Year.
“Fiscal Year” means the period starting July 1 and ending on the following June 30.
“Indenture” means the indenture, fiscal agent agreement, resolution or other instrument
pursuant to which Bonds are issued, as modified, amended and/or supplemented from
time to time.
“Land Use Class” means any of the classes listed in Table 1 below.
“Maximum Special Tax” means the Maximum Special Tax, determined in accordance
with Section C below, that can be levied in any Fiscal Year on any Assessor's Parcel.
“Non-Residential Property” means all Assessor's Parcels of Developed Property for
which a building permit was issued for a non-residential use.
“Outstanding Bonds” means all Bonds which are deemed to be outstanding under the
Indenture.
“Property Owner Association Property” means, for each Fiscal Year, any property
within the boundaries of CFD No. 3 that was owned by a property owner association,
including any master or sub-association, as of January 1 of the prior Fiscal Year.
“Proportionately” means, for Developed Property, that the ratio of the actual Special
Tax levy to the Assigned Special Tax is equal for all Assessor's Parcels of Developed
Property, or where the Backup Special Tax is being levied, that the ratio of the actual
Special Tax levy to the Maximum Special Tax is equal for all Assessor's Parcels upon
which a Backup Special Tax is being levied.
For Undeveloped Property,
B-2

“Proportionately” means that the ratio of the actual Special Tax levy per Acre to the
Maximum Special Tax per Acre is equal for all Assessor's Parcels of Undeveloped
Property. The term “Proportionately” may similarly be applied to other categories of
Taxable Property as listed in Section D below.
“Public Property” means property within the boundaries of CFD No. 3 owned by,
irrevocably offered or dedicated to, or for which an easement for purposes of public
right-of-way has been granted to the federal government, the State, the County, the City,
or any local government or other public agency, provided that any property leased by a
public agency to a private entity and subject to taxation under Section 53340.1 of the Act
shall be taxed and classified according to its use.
“Residential Floor Area” means all of the square footage of living area within the
perimeter of a residential structure, not including any carport, walkway, garage,
overhang, patio, enclosed patio, or similar area. The determination of Residential Floor
Area shall be made by reference to the building permit(s) issued for such Assessor's
Parcel.
“Residential Property” means all Assessor's Parcels of Developed Property for which a
building permit has been issued for purposes of constructing one or more residential
dwelling units.
“Special Tax” means the special tax to be levied in each Fiscal Year on each Assessor's
Parcel of Taxable Property within CFD No. 3 to fund the Special Tax Requirement.
“Special Tax Requirement” means that amount required in any Fiscal Year for CFD No.
3 to: (i) pay debt service on all Outstanding Bonds due in the calendar year that
commences in such Fiscal Year; (ii) pay periodic costs on the Bonds, including but not
limited to, credit enhancement and rebate payments on the Bonds; (iii) pay
Administrative Expenses; (iv) pay any amounts required to establish or replenish any
reserve funds for all Outstanding Bonds; (v) pay directly for acquisition or construction
of authorized facilities to the extent that the inclusion of such amount does not increase
the Special Tax levy on Undeveloped Property; (vi) pay for reasonably anticipated
Special Tax delinquencies based on the delinquency rate for the Special Tax levy in the
previous Fiscal Year; less (vii) a credit for funds available to reduce the annual Special
Tax levy, as determined by the CFD Administrator pursuant to the Indenture.
“State” means the State of California.
“Taxable Property” means all of the Assessor's Parcels within the boundaries of CFD
No. 3 which are not exempt from the Special Tax pursuant to law or Section E below.
“Taxable Property Owner Association Property” means all Assessor's Parcels of
Property Owner Association Property that are not exempt pursuant to Section E below.
“Taxable Public Property” means all Assessor's Parcels of Public Property that are not
exempt pursuant to Section E below.
“Trustee” means the trustee or fiscal agent under the Indenture.
“Undeveloped Property” means, for each Fiscal Year, all Taxable Property not classified
as Developed Property, Taxable Public Property or Taxable Property Owner Association
Property.

B-3

B.

ASSIGNMENT TO LAND USE CATEGORIES
Each Fiscal Year, all Taxable Property within CFD No. 3 shall be classified as Developed
Property, Taxable Public Property, Taxable Property Owner Association Property, or
Undeveloped Property, and shall be subject to Special Taxes in accordance with the rate
and method of apportionment determined pursuant to Sections C and D below.

C.

MAXIMUM SPECIAL TAX
1.

Developed Property
(a).

Maximum Special Tax
The Maximum Special Tax for each Assessor's Parcel classified as
Developed Property shall be the greater of (i) the amount derived by
application of the Assigned Special Tax or (ii) the amount derived by
application of the Backup Special Tax.

(b).

Assigned Special Tax
The Fiscal Year 2005-06 Assigned Special Tax for each Land Use Class is
shown below in Table1.
TABLE 1
Assigned Special Taxes for Developed Property in
Community Facilities District No. 3
Fiscal Year 2005-06

Land Use
Class

Description

1

Residential Property

2

Residential Property

3

Residential Property

4

Residential Property

5

Residential Property

6

Non-Residential Property
(c).

Residential Floor Area
> 3,000 s.f.

Assigned Special Tax
$3,493 per unit

2,800 – 3,000 s.f.

$3,333 per unit

2,600 – 2,799 s.f.

$3,227 per unit

2,400 – 2,599 s.f.

$3,050 per unit

< 2,400 s.f.

$1,438 per unit

NA

$17,503 per Acre

Backup Special Tax
The Fiscal Year 2005-06 Backup Special Tax for an Assessor's Parcel of
Developed Property shall equal $17,503 per Acre.

B-4

(d).

Increase in the Assigned Special Tax and Backup Special Tax
On each July 1, commencing on July 1, 2006, the Assigned Special Tax
and the Backup Special Tax shall be increased by an amount equal to two
percent (2%) of the amount in effect for the previous Fiscal Year.

2.

Undeveloped Property, Taxable Public Property, and Taxable Property Owner
Association Property
(a).

Maximum Special Tax
The Fiscal Year 2005-06 Maximum Special Tax for Undeveloped Property,
Taxable Public Property, and Taxable Property Owner Association
Property shall be $17,503 per Acre.

(b).

Increase in the Maximum Special Tax
On each July 1, commencing on July 1, 2006, the Maximum Special Tax
for Undeveloped Property, Taxable Public Property, and Taxable
Property Owner Association Property shall be increased by an amount
equal to two percent (2%) of the amount in effect for the previous Fiscal
Year.

D.

METHOD OF APPORTIONMENT OF THE SPECIAL TAX
Commencing with Fiscal Year 2005-06 and for each following Fiscal Year, the Council
shall determine the Special Tax Requirement and shall levy the Special Tax until the
total Special Tax levy equals the Special Tax Requirement. The Special Tax shall be
levied each Fiscal Year as follows:
First: The Special Tax shall be levied on each Assessor's Parcel of Developed Property in
an amount equal to 100% of the applicable Assigned Special Tax;
Second: If additional monies are needed to satisfy the Special Tax Requirement after the
first step has been completed, the Special Tax shall be levied Proportionately on each
Assessor's Parcel of Undeveloped Property at up to 100% of the Maximum Special Tax
for Undeveloped Property;
Third: If additional monies are needed to satisfy the Special Tax Requirement after the
first two steps have been completed, then the levy of the Special Tax on each Assessor's
Parcel of Developed Property whose Maximum Special Tax is determined through the
application of the Backup Special Tax shall be increased Proportionately from the
Assigned Special Tax up to the Maximum Special Tax for each such Assessor's Parcel;
Fourth: If additional monies are needed to satisfy the Special Tax Requirement after the
first three steps have been completed, then the Special Tax shall be levied
Proportionately on each Assessor's Parcel of Taxable Property Owner Association
Property at up to the Maximum Special Tax for Taxable Property Owner Association
Property;
Fifth: If additional monies are needed to satisfy the Special Tax Requirement after the
first four steps have been completed, then the Special Tax shall be levied Proportionately
on each Assessor's Parcel of Taxable Public Property at up to the Maximum Special Tax
for Taxable Public Property.
B-5

Notwithstanding the above the Council may, in any Fiscal Year, levy Proportionately
less than 100% of the Assigned Special Tax in step one (above), when (i) the Council is
no longer required to levy the Special Tax pursuant to steps two through five above in
order to meet the Special Tax Requirement; and (ii) all authorized CFD No. 3 Bonds
have already been issued or the Council has covenanted that it will not issue any
additional CFD No. 3 Bonds (except refunding bonds) to be supported by the Special
Tax.
Further notwithstanding the above, under no circumstances will the Special Tax levied
against any Assessor's Parcel of Residential Property for which an occupancy permit for
private residential use has been issued be increased by more than ten percent as a
consequence of delinquency or default by the owner of any other Assessor's Parcel
within CFD No. 3.
E.

EXEMPTIONS
No Special Tax shall be levied on up to 3.74 Acres of Public Property and/or Property
Owner Association Property. Tax-exempt status will be irrevocably assigned by the
CFD Administrator in the chronological order in which property becomes Public
Property or Property Owner Association Property. However, should an Assessor's
Parcel no longer be classified as Public Property or Property Owner Association
Property its tax-exempt status will be revoked.
Public Property or Property Owner Association Property that is not exempt from the
Special Tax under this section shall be subject to the levy of the Special Tax and shall be
taxed Proportionately as part of the fourth or fifth step, as applicable, in Section D
above, at up to 100% of the applicable Maximum Special Tax for Taxable Public
Property or Taxable Property Owner Association Property.

F.

APPEALS AND INTERPRETATIONS
Any landowner or resident who feels that the amount of the Special Tax levied on their
Assessor's Parcel is in error may submit a written appeal to CFD No. 3. The CFD
Administrator shall review the appeal and if the CFD Administrator concurs, the
amount of the Special Tax levied shall be appropriately modified through an adjustment
to the Special Tax levy in the following Fiscal Year. No refunds shall be given in the
current Fiscal Year.
The Council may interpret this Rate and Method of Apportionment of Special Tax for
purposes of clarifying any ambiguity and make determinations relative to the annual
administration of the Special Tax and any landowner or resident appeals. Any decision
of the Council shall be final and binding as to all persons.

G.

MANNER OF COLLECTION
The Special Tax will be collected in the same manner and at the same time as ordinary
ad valorem property taxes; provided, however, that CFD No. 3 may directly bill the
Special Tax, may collect Special Taxes at a different time or in a different manner if
necessary to meet its financial obligations, and may covenant to foreclose and may
actually foreclose on delinquent Assessor's Parcels as permitted by the Act.

B-6

H.

PREPAYMENT OF SPECIAL TAX
The following definition applies to this Section H:
“CFD Public Facilities” means either $2,230,000 in 2003 dollars, which shall increase by
the Construction Inflation Index on July 1, 2004, and on each July 1 thereafter, or such
lower number as (i) shall be determined by the CFD Administrator as sufficient to
provide the public facilities to be provided by CFD No. 3 under the authorized bonding
program for CFD No. 3, or (ii) shall be determined by the Council concurrently with a
covenant that it will not issue any more Bonds to be supported by Special Tax levied
under this Rate and Method of Apportionment as described in Section D.
“Construction Fund” means an account specifically identified in the Indenture to hold
funds which are currently available for expenditure to acquire or construct public
facilities eligible under the Act.
“Construction Inflation Index” means the annual percentage change in the Engineering
News-Record Building Cost Index for the City of Los Angeles, measured as of the
calendar year which ends in the previous Fiscal Year. In the event this index ceases to
be published, the Construction Inflation Index shall be another index as determined by
the CFD Administrator that is reasonably comparable to the Engineering News-Record
Building Cost Index for the City of Los Angeles.
“Future Facilities Costs” means the CFD Public Facilities minus (i) public facility costs
previously paid from the Construction Fund, (ii) moneys currently on deposit in the
Construction Fund, and (iii) moneys currently on deposit in an escrow fund that are
expected to be available to finance facilities costs.
“Outstanding Bonds” means all Previously Issued Bonds which are deemed to be
outstanding under the Indenture after the first interest and/or principal payment date
following the current Fiscal Year.
“Previously Issued Bonds” means all Bonds that have been issued by CFD No. 3 prior
to the date of prepayment.
1.

Prepayment in Full
The obligation of an Assessor's Parcel to pay the Special Tax may be prepaid and
permanently satisfied as described herein; provided that a prepayment may be
made only for Assessor's Parcels of Developed Property or Undeveloped
Property for which a building permit has been issued, and only if there are no
delinquent Special Taxes with respect to such Assessor's Parcel at the time of
prepayment. An owner of an Assessor's Parcel intending to prepay the Special
Tax obligation shall provide the CFD Administrator with written notice of intent
to prepay. Within 30 days of receipt of such written notice, the CFD
Administrator shall notify such owner of the prepayment amount of such
Assessor's Parcel. The CFD Administrator may charge a reasonable fee for
providing this service. Prepayment must be made not less than 45 days prior to
the next occurring date that notice of redemption of Bonds from the proceeds of
such prepayment may be given to the Trustee pursuant to the Indenture.

B-7

The Special Tax Prepayment Amount (defined below) shall be calculated as
summarized below (capitalized terms as defined below):
Bond Redemption Amount
plus
Redemption Premium
plus
Future Facilities Amount
plus
Defeasance Amount
plus
Administrative Fees and Expenses
less
Reserve Fund Credit
less
Capitalized Interest Credit
Total: equals
Prepayment Amount
As of the proposed date of prepayment, the Special Tax Prepayment Amount
(defined below) shall be calculated as follows:
Paragraph No.:
1.

Confirm that no Special Tax delinquencies apply to such Assessor's Parcel.

2.

For Assessor's Parcels of Developed Property, compute the Assigned Special Tax
and Backup Special Tax applicable for the Assessor's Parcel to be prepaid. For
Assessor's Parcels of Undeveloped Property (for which a building permit has
been issued) to be prepaid, compute the Assigned Special Tax and Backup
Special Tax for that Assessor's Parcel as though it was already designated as
Developed Property, based upon the building permit which has already been
issued for that Assessor's Parcel.

3.

(a) Divide the Assigned Special Tax computed pursuant to paragraph 2 by the
total estimated Assigned Special Taxes for CFD No. 3 based on the Developed
Property Special Taxes which could be charged in the current Fiscal Year on all
expected development through buildout of CFD No. 3, excluding any Assessor's
Parcels which have been prepaid, and
(b) Divide the Backup Special Tax computed pursuant to paragraph 2 by the
estimated total Backup Special Taxes at buildout of CFD No. 3, excluding any
Assessor's Parcels which have been prepaid.

4.

Multiply the larger quotient computed pursuant to paragraph 3(a) or 3(b) by the
Outstanding Bonds to compute the amount of Outstanding Bonds to be retired
and prepaid (the “Bond Redemption Amount”).

5.

Multiply the Bond Redemption Amount computed pursuant to paragraph 4 by
the applicable redemption premium (e.g., the redemption price - 100%), if any,
on the Outstanding Bonds to be redeemed (the “Redemption Premium”).

6.

Compute the current Future Facilities Costs

7.

Multiply the larger quotient computed pursuant to paragraph 3(a) or 3(b) by the
amount determined pursuant to paragraph 6 to compute the amount of Future
Facilities Costs to be prepaid (the “Future Facilities Amount”).

8.

Compute the amount needed to pay interest on the Bond Redemption Amount
from the first bond interest and/or principal payment date following the current
Fiscal Year until the earliest redemption date for the Outstanding Bonds.
B-8

9.

Determine the Special Tax levied on the Assessor's Parcel in the current Fiscal
Year which has not yet been paid.

10.

Compute the minimum amount the CFD Administrator reasonably expects to
derive from the reinvestment of the Special Tax Prepayment Amount less the
Future Facilities Amount and the Administrative Fees and Expenses from the
date of prepayment until the redemption date for the Outstanding Bonds to be
redeemed with the prepayment.

11.

Add the amounts computed pursuant to paragraphs 8 and 9 and subtract the
amount computed pursuant to paragraph 10 (the “Defeasance Amount”).

12.

Verify the administrative fees and expenses of CFD No. 3, including the costs of
computation of the prepayment, the costs to invest the prepayment proceeds, the
costs of redeeming Bonds, and the costs of recording any notices to evidence the
prepayment and the redemption (the “Administrative Fees and Expenses”).

13.

If reserve funds for the Outstanding Bonds, if any, are at or above 100% of the
reserve requirement (as defined in the Indenture) on the prepayment date, a
reserve fund credit shall be calculated as a reduction in the applicable reserve
fund for the Outstanding Bonds to be redeemed pursuant to the prepayment (the
“Reserve Fund Credit”). No Reserve Fund Credit shall be granted if reserve
funds are below 100% of the reserve requirement.

14.

If any capitalized interest for the Outstanding Bonds will not have been
expended at the time of the first interest and/or principal payment following the
current Fiscal Year, a capitalized interest credit shall be calculated by multiplying
the larger quotient computed pursuant to paragraph 3(a) or 3(b) by the expected
balance in the capitalized interest fund after such first interest and/or principal
payment (the “Capitalized Interest Credit”).

15.

The Special Tax prepayment is equal to the sum of the amounts computed
pursuant to paragraphs 4, 5, 7, 11 and 12, less the amounts computed pursuant to
paragraphs 13 and 14 (the “Prepayment Amount”).

16.

From the Prepayment Amount, the amounts computed pursuant to paragraphs
4, 5, 11, 13 and 14 shall be deposited into the appropriate fund as established
under the Indenture and be used to retire Outstanding Bonds or make debt
service payments. The amount computed pursuant to paragraph 7 shall be
deposited into the Construction Fund. The amount computed pursuant to
paragraph 12 shall be retained by CFD No. 3.

The Special Tax Prepayment Amount may be sufficient to redeem other than a $5,000
increment of Bonds. In such cases, the increment above $5,000 or integral multiple
thereof will be retained in the appropriate fund established under the Indenture to be
used with the next prepayment of bonds or to make debt service payments.
As a result of the payment of the current Fiscal Year's Special Tax levy as determined
under paragraph 9 (above), the CFD Administrator shall remove the current Fiscal
Year's Special Tax levy for such Assessor's Parcel from the County tax rolls. With
respect to any Assessor's Parcel that is prepaid, the Council shall cause a suitable notice
to be recorded in compliance with the Act, to indicate the prepayment of the Special Tax

B-9

and the release of the Special Tax lien on such Assessor's Parcel, and the obligation of
such Assessor's Parcel to pay the Special Tax shall cease.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Special Tax prepayment shall be allowed unless the
amount of Assigned Special Taxes that may be levied on Taxable Property within CFD
No. 3 (after excluding 3.74 Acres of Public Property and/or Property Owner Association
Property as set forth in Section E) both prior to and after the proposed prepayment is at
least 1.1 times the maximum annual debt service on all Outstanding Bonds.
2.

Prepayment in Part
The Special Tax on an Assessor's Parcel of Developed Property or an Assessor's
Parcel of Undeveloped Property for which a building permit has been issued
may be partially prepaid. The amount of the prepayment shall be calculated as in
Section H.1; except that a partial prepayment shall be calculated according to the
following formula:
PP = [(PE - AE) x F] + AE
These terms have the following meaning:
AE = the Administrative Fees and Expenses
PP = the partial prepayment
PE = the Special Tax Prepayment Amount calculated according to Section H.1
F = the percentage by which the owner of the Assessor's Parcel(s) is partially
prepaying the Special Tax.
The owner of any Assessor's Parcel who desires such prepayment shall notify the
CFD Administrator of such owner's intent to partially prepay the Special Tax
and the percentage by which the Special Tax shall be prepaid. The CFD
Administrator shall provide the owner with a statement of the amount required
for the partial prepayment of the Special Tax for an Assessor's Parcel within
thirty (30) days of the request and may charge a reasonable fee for providing this
service. With respect to any Assessor's Parcel that is partially prepaid, the City
shall (i) distribute the funds remitted to it according to Section H.1, and (ii)
indicate in the records of CFD No. 3 that there has been a partial prepayment of
the Special Tax and that a portion of the Special Tax with respect to such
Assessor's Parcel, equal to the outstanding percentage (1.00 - F) of the remaining
Maximum Special Tax, shall continue to be levied on such Assessor's Parcel
pursuant to Section D.

I.

TERM OF SPECIAL TAX
The Special Tax shall be levied for a period not to exceed fifty years commencing with
Fiscal Year 2005-06.

B-10

